.TH "elpa_solve_tridiagonal" 3 "Thu Nov 28 2024" "ELPA" \" -*- nroff -*-
.ad l
.nh
.ss 12 0
.SH NAME
elpa_solve_tridiagonal \- computes the eigenvalue problem for real symmetric tridiagonal matrix
computes all eigenvalues \(*l and all eigenvectors for a real symmetric tridiagonal matrix: T*Q = \(*l*Q
.br

.SH SYNOPSIS
.br
.SS FORTRAN INTERFACE
use elpa
.br
class(elpa_t), pointer :: elpa_handle
.br

call elpa_handle%\fBsolve_tridiagonal\fP (d, e, q, error)
.sp
With the definitions of the input and output variables:

.TP
class(elpa_t) ::\fB elpa_handle\fP
An instance of the ELPA object.
.TP
datatype_real ::\fB d\fP
The diagonal elements of matrix T.
\fB d\fP is a gloabal array of size elpa_handle%na, replicated on all MPI ranks.
The dimensions of the matrix must be set\fI BEFORE\fP with\fB elpa_setup\fP(3).
On exit the eigenvalues are stored in\fB d\fP.
The\fB datatype_real\fP of the diagonal elements can either be "real(kind=c_double)" or "real(kind=c_float)".
.TP
datatype_real ::\fB e\fP
The offdiagonal elements of matrix T.
\fB e\fP is a gloabal array of size elpa_handle%na-1, replicated on all MPI ranks.
The\fB datatype_real\fP of the diagonal elements can either be "real(kind=c_double)" or "real(kind=c_float)".
.TP
datatype_real ::\fB q\fP
The storage space for the computed eigenvectors Q.
The\fB datatype_real\fP of the matrix can be either "real(kind=c_double)" or "real(kind=c_float)".
.TP
integer, optional ::\fB error\fP
The return error code of the function. Should be "ELPA_OK". The error code can be queried with the function\fB elpa_strerr\fP(3)

.br
.SS C/C++ INTERFACE
#include <elpa/elpa.h>
.br
elpa_t elpa_handle;

.br
void\fB elpa_solve_tridiagonal\fP(\fBelpa_t\fP elpa_handle,\fB datatype_real\fP *d,\fB datatype_real\fP *e,\fB datatype_real\fP *q,\fB int\fP *error);
.sp
With the definitions of the input and output variables:

.TP
elpa_t \fB elpa_handle\fP;
The handle to the ELPA object
.TP
datatype_real \fB *d\fP;
The diagonal elements of matrix T.
\fB d\fP is a gloabal array of size\fB na\fP, replicated on all MPI ranks.
The dimensions of the matrix must be set\fI BEFORE\fP with\fB elpa_setup\fP(3).
On exit the eigenvalues are stored in\fB d\fP.
The\fB datatype_real\fP can be one of "double" or "float".
.TP
datatype_real \fB *e\fP;
The offdiagonal elements of matrix T.
\fB ev\fP is a gloabal array of size\fB na-1\fP, replicated on all MPI ranks.
The\fB datatype_real\fP can be one of "double" or "float".
.TP
datatype_real \fB *q\fP;
The storage space for the computed eigenvectors Q.
The\fB datatype_real\fP can be one of "double" or "float".
.TP
int \fB *error\fP;
The error code of the function. Should be "ELPA_OK". The error codes can be queried with\fB elpa_strerr\fP(3)

.SH DESCRIPTION
Computes the eigenvalue problem of a real symmetric tridiagonal matrix. The functions\fB elpa_init\fP(3),\fB elpa_allocate\fP(3),\fB elpa_set\fP(3), and\fB elpa_setup\fP(3) must be called\fI BEFORE\fP\fB elpa_solve_tridiagonal\fP can be called.

.SH SEE ALSO
\fBelpa2_print_kernels\fP(1)\fB elpa_init\fP(3)\fB elpa_allocate\fP(3)\fB elpa_set\fP(3)\fB elpa_setup\fP(3)\fB elpa_strerr\fP(3)\fB elpa_eigenvalues\fP(3)\fB elpa_cholesky\fP(3)\fB elpa_invert_triangular\fP(3)\fB elpa_hermitian_multiply\fP(3)\fB elpa_uninit\fP(3)\fB elpa_deallocate\fP(3)
