.TH "elpa_cholesky" 3 "Wed Aug 9 2023" "ELPA" \" -*- nroff -*-
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
elpa_cholesky \- does a Cholesky factorization of a real symmetric or complex hermitian matrix.
.sp
There are also variations of this routine that can accept not only host but also device pointers as input/output. 
Names of these routines explicitly contain the corresponding datatypes: 
elpa_cholesky_double,
elpa_cholesky_float,
elpa_cholesky_double_complex,
elpa_cholesky_float_complex.

.SH SYNOPSIS
.br
.SS FORTRAN INTERFACE
use elpa
.br
class(elpa_t), pointer :: elpa
.br

call elpa%\fBcholesky\fP (a, error)
.sp
With the definitions of the input and output variables:

.TP
datatype :: \fB a\fP  ! can also be a device pointer of type(c_ptr)
The host/device matrix\fB a\fP which should be decomposed.
The dimensions of matrix\fB a\fP must be set\fI BEFORE\fP with the methods\fB elpa_set\fP(3) and\fB elpa_setup\fP(3).
The\fB datatype\fP of the matrix can be one of "real(kind=c_double)", "real(kind=c_float)", "complex(kind=c_double)", or "complex(kind=c_float)".
In case of a GPU build\fB a\fP can be a device pointer of type "type(c_ptr)" to matrix\fB a\fP in the device memory.
.TP
integer, optional :: \fB error\fP
The return error code of the function. Should be "ELPA_OK". The error code can be queried with the function\fB elpa_strerr\fP(3)

.br
.SS C INTERFACE
#include <elpa/elpa.h>
.br
elpa_t handle;

.br
void \fB elpa_cholesky\fP(\fBelpa_t\fP handle,\fB datatype\fP *a,\fB int\fP *error);
.sp
With the definitions of the input and output variables:

.TP
elpa_t \fB handle\fP;
The handle to the ELPA object
.TP
datatype\fB *a\fP; // can also be a device pointer
The host/device matrix\fB a\fP which should be decomposed. The dimensions of the matrix must be set\fI BEFORE\fP with the methods\fB elpa_set\fP(3) and\fB elpa_setup\fP(3).
The\fB datatype\fP can be one of "double", "float", "double complex", or "float complex".
.TP
int \fB *error\fP;
The error code of the function. Should be "ELPA_OK". The error codes can be queried with\fB elpa_strerr\fP(3)

.SH DESCRIPTION
Computes the Cholesky decomposition of a real symmetric or complex hermitian matrix.
The functions\fB elpa_init\fP(3),\fB elpa_allocate\fP(3),\fB elpa_set\fP(3), and\fB elpa_setup\fP(3) must be called\fI BEFORE\fP\fB elpa_cholesky\fP can be called.

.SH SEE ALSO
\fBelpa2_print_kernels\fP(1)\fB elpa_init\fP(3)\fB elpa_allocate\fP(3)\fB elpa_set\fP(3)\fB elpa_setup\fP(3)\fB elpa_strerr\fP(3)\fB elpa_eigenvalues\fP(3)\fB elpa_eigenvectors\fP(3)\fB elpa_invert_triangular\fP(3)\fB elpa_solve_tridiagonal\fB(3)\fB elpa_hermitian_multiply\fP(3)\fB elpa_uninit\fP(3)\fB elpa_deallocate\fP(3)
