.TH "elpa_invert_triangular" 3 "Thu Nov 28 2024" "ELPA" \" -*- nroff -*-
.ad l
.nh
.ss 12 0
.SH NAME
elpa_invert_triangular \- inverts an upper triangular matrix.
.sp
There are also variations of this routine that can accept not only host but also device pointers as input/output. 
Names of these routines explicitly contain the corresponding datatypes:
elpa_invert_triangular_double,
elpa_invert_triangular_float,
elpa_invert_triangular_double_complex,
elpa_invert_triangular_float_complex.
.br

.SH SYNOPSIS
.br
.SS FORTRAN INTERFACE
use elpa
.br
class(elpa_t), pointer :: elpa_handle
.br

call elpa_handle%\fBinvert_triangular\fP (a, error)
.sp
With the definitions of the input and output variables:
.TP
datatype  ::\fB a\fP
The local part of the host/device upper triangular matrix A that should be inverted.
The dimensions of matrix\fB a\fP must be set\fI BEFORE\fP with the methods\fB elpa_set\fP(3) and\fB elpa_setup\fP(3).
The\fB datatype\fP of the matrix can be one of "real(kind=c_double)", "real(kind=c_float)", "complex(kind=c_double)", or "complex(kind=c_float)".
.TP
integer, optional ::\fB error\fP
The return error code of the function. Should be "ELPA_OK". The error code can be queried with the function\fB elpa_strerr\fP(3).

.br
.SS C/C++ INTERFACE
#include <elpa/elpa.h>
.br
elpa_t elpa_handle;

.br
void\fB elpa_invert_triangular\fP(\fBelpa_t\fP elpa_handle,\fB datatype\fP *a,\fB int\fP *error);
.sp
With the definitions of the input and output variables:

.TP
elpa_t \fB elpa_handle\fP;
The handle to the ELPA object
.TP
datatype \fB *a\fP;
The local part of the host/device upper triangular matrix A that should be inverted.
The dimensions of the matrix must be set\fI BEFORE\fP with the methods\fB elpa_set\fP(3) and\fB elpa_setup\fP(3).
The\fB datatype\fP can be one of "double", "float", "double complex"/"std::complex<double>", "float complex"/"std::complex<float>" for C/C++.
.TP
int \fB *error\fP;
The error code of the function. Should be "ELPA_OK". The error codes can be queried with\fB elpa_strerr\fP(3).

.SH DESCRIPTION
Inverts an upper triangular real or complex matrix. The functions\fB elpa_init\fP(3),\fB elpa_allocate\fP(3),\fB elpa_set\fP(3), and\fB elpa_setup\fP(3) must be called\fI BEFORE\fP\fB elpa_invert_triangular\fP can be called.

.SH SEE ALSO
\fBelpa2_print_kernels\fP(1)\fB elpa_init\fP(3)\fB elpa_allocate\fP(3)\fB elpa_set\fP(3)\fB elpa_setup\fP(3)\fB elpa_strerr\fP(3)\fB elpa_eigenvalues\fP(3)\fB elpa_eigenvectors\fP(3)\fB elpa_choleksy\fP(3)\fB elpa_solve_tridiagonal\fP(3)\fB elpa_hermitian_multiply\fP(3)\fB elpa_uninit\fP(3)\fB elpa_deallocate\fP(3)
