.TH "elpa_eigenvalues_double" 3 "Wed Aug 9 2023" "ELPA" \" -*- nroff -*-
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
elpa_eigenvalues_double \- computes all eigenvalues of a real double-precision symmetric matrix
.br

.SH SYNOPSIS
.br
.SS FORTRAN INTERFACE
use elpa
.br
class(elpa_t), pointer :: elpa
.br

call elpa%\fBeigenvalues_double\fP (a, ev, error)
.sp
With the definitions of the input and output variables:

.TP
class(elpa_t) :: \fB elpa\fP
An instance of the ELPA object.
.TP
datatype :: \fB a\fP ! can also be a device pointer of type(c_ptr)
The host/device matrix\fB a\fP for which the eigenvalues should be computed.
The dimensions of matrix\fB a\fP must be set\fI BEFORE\fP with the methods\fB elpa_set\fP(3) and\fB elpa_setup\fP(3).
The\fB datatype\fP of the matrix must be "real(kind=c_double)".
The matrix has to be symmetric, this is not checked by the routine.
In case of a GPU build\fB a\fP can be a device pointer of type "type(c_ptr)" to a matrix\fB a\fP in the device memory.
.TP
datatype :: \fB ev\fP
The vector\fB ev\fP where the eigenvalues will be stored in\fI ascending\fP order.
The\fB datatype\fP of the vector\fB ev\fP must be "real(kind=c_double)".
In case of a GPU build\fB ev\fP can be a device pointer of type "type(c_ptr)" to the vector of eigenvalues in the device memory
.
.TP
integer, optional :: \fB error\fP
The return error code of the function. Should be "ELPA_OK". The error code can be queried with the function\fB elpa_strerr\fP(3)

.br
.SS C INTERFACE
#include <elpa/elpa.h>
.br
elpa_t handle;

.br
void\fB elpa_eigenvalues_double\fP(\fBelpa_t\fP handle,\fB datatype\fP *a,\fB datatype\fP *ev,\fB int\fP *error);
.sp
With the definitions of the input and output variables:

.TP
elpa_t \fB handle\fP;
The handle to the ELPA object
.TP
datatype \fB *a\fP;
The host/device matrix\fB a\fP for which the eigenvalues should be computed. The dimensions of the matrix must be set\fI BEFORE\fP with the methods\fB elpa_set\fP(3) and\fB elpa_setup\fP(3). The\fB datatype\fP must be "double". The matrix has to be symmetric, this is not checked by the routine. In case of a GPU build\fB a\fP can be a device pointer to a matrix\fB a\fP in the device memory.
.TP
datatype \fB *ev\fP;
The storage for the computed eigenvalues.
Eigenvalues will be stored in\fI ascending\fP order.
The\fB datatype\fP must be "double".
In case of a GPU build\fB ev\fP can be a device pointer to the vectors of eigenvalues in the device memory.

.TP
int \fB *error\fP;
The error code of the function. Should be "ELPA_OK". The error codes can be queried with\fB elpa_strerr\fP(3)

.SH DESCRIPTION
Computes the eigenvalues of a double precision real symmetric matrix. The functions\fB elpa_init\fP(3),\fB elpa_allocate\fP(3),\fB elpa_set\fP(3), and\fB elpa_setup\fP(3) must be called\fI BEFORE\fP\fB elpa_eigenvalues_double\fP can be called.

.SH SEE ALSO
\fBelpa2_print_kernels\fP(1)\fB elpa_init\fP(3)\fB elpa_allocate\fP(3)\fB elpa_set\fP(3)\fB elpa_setup\fP(3)\fB elpa_strerr\fP(3)\fB elpa_skew_eigenvalues\fP(3)\fB elpa_eigenvectors\fP(3)\fB elpa_skew_eigenvectors\fP(3)\fB elpa_cholesky\fP(3)\fB elpa_invert_triangular\fP(3)\fB elpa_solve_tridiagonal\fP(3)\fB elpa_eigenvalues\fP(3)\fB elpa_uninit\fP(3)\fB elpa_deallocate\fP(3)

