.TH "elpa_cholesky_float" 3 "Thu Nov 28 2024" "ELPA" \" -*- nroff -*-
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
elpa_cholesky_float \- performs a Cholesky factorization of a real symmetric positive-definite matrix: A = U^T*U, where U is an upper triangular matrix.

.SH SYNOPSIS
.br
.SS FORTRAN INTERFACE
use elpa
.br
class(elpa_t), pointer :: elpa_handle
.br

call elpa_handle%\fBcholesky_float\fP (a, error)
.sp
With the definitions of the input and output variables:

.TP
real(kind=c_float) :: \fB a\fP \t OR \t type(c_ptr) ::\fB a\fP
On input:  the host/device local part of matrix A that should be decomposed.
On output: the host/device local part of upper triangular matrix U.
The dimensions of matrix\fB a\fP must be set\fI BEFORE\fP with the methods\fB elpa_set\fP(3) and\fB elpa_setup\fP(3).
In case of a GPU build\fB a\fP can be a device pointer to a matrix\fB a\fP in the device memory.
.TP
integer, optional :: \fB error\fP
The return error code of the function. Should be "ELPA_OK". The error code can be queried with the function\fB elpa_strerr\fP(3)

.br
.SS C/C++ INTERFACE
#include <elpa/elpa.h>
.br
elpa_t elpa_handle;

.br
void \fB elpa_cholesky_float\fP(\fBelpa_t\fP elpa_handle,\fB float\fP *a,\fB int\fP *error);
.sp
With the definitions of the input and output variables:

.TP
elpa_t \fB elpa_handle\fP;
The handle to the ELPA object
.TP
float\fB *a\fP;
On input:  the host/device local part of matrix A that should be decomposed.
On output: the host/device local part of upper triangular matrix U.
The dimensions of the matrix must be set\fI BEFORE\fP with the methods\fB elpa_set\fP(3) and\fB elpa_setup\fP(3).
.TP
int \fB *error\fP;
The error code of the function. Should be "ELPA_OK". The error codes can be queried with\fB elpa_strerr\fP(3)

.SH DESCRIPTION
Computes the Cholesky decomposition of a real symmetric positive-definite matrix.
The functions\fB elpa_init\fP(3),\fB elpa_allocate\fP(3),\fB elpa_set\fP(3), and\fB elpa_setup\fP(3) must be called\fI BEFORE\fP\fB elpa_cholesky_float\fP can be called.

.SH SEE ALSO
\fB elpa_init\fP(3)\fB elpa_allocate\fP(3)\fB elpa_set\fP(3)\fB elpa_setup\fP(3)\fB elpa_strerr\fP(3)\fB elpa_eigenvalues\fP(3)\fB elpa_eigenvectors\fP(3)\fB elpa_invert_triangular\fP(3)\fB elpa_solve_tridiagonal\fB(3)\fB elpa_hermitian_multiply\fP(3)\fB elpa_uninit\fP(3)\fB elpa_deallocate\fP(3)
