.TH "elpa_invert_trm_complex_single" 3 "Wed May 17 2017" "ELPA" \" -*- nroff -*-
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
elpa_invert_trm_complex_single \- Invert a upper triangular matrix (legacy interface)
.br

.SH SYNOPSIS
.br
.SS FORTRAN INTERFACE
use elpa1
.br
.br
.RI  "success = \fBelpa_invert_trm_complex_single\fP (na, a, lda, nblk, matrixCols, mpi_comm_rows, mpi_comm_cols, wantDebug)"
.br
.RI " "
.br
.RI "With the definitions of the input and output variables:"

.br
.RI "integer, intent(in)        \fBna\fP:            Order of matrix \fBa\fP"
.br
.RI "complex*8,  intent(inout)  \fBa\fP:             locally distributed part of the matrix \fBa\fP. The local dimensions are \fBlda\fP x \fBldaCols\fP. Only upper triangule needs to be set. The lower triangle is not referenced"
.br
.RI "integer, intent(in)        \fBlda\fP:           leading dimension of locally distributed matrix \fBa\fP"
.br
.RI "integer, intent(in)        \fBnblk\fP:          blocksize of cyclic distribution, must be the same in both directions"
.br
.RI "integer, intent(in)        \fBmatrixCols\fP:    number of columns of locally distributed matrices \fBa\fP"
.br
.RI "integer, intent(in)        \fBmpi_comm_rows\fP: communicator for communication in rows. Constructed with \fBelpa_get_communicators\fP(3)"
.br
.RI "integer, intent(in)        \fBmpi_comm_cols\fP: communicator for communication in colums. Constructed with \fBelpa_get_communicators\fP(3)"
.br
.RI "logical, intent(in)        \fBwantDebug\fP:     if .true. , print more debug information in case of an error"

.br
.RI "logical                    \fBsuccess\fP:       return value indicating success or failure"
.br
.SS C INTERFACE
#include "elpa_legacy.h"

.br
.RI "\fBint\fP success = \fBelpa_invert_trm_complex_single\fP (\fBint\fP na, \fB complex *\fPa, \fBint\fP lda, \fBint\fP nblk, \fBint\fP matrixCols, \fBint\fP mpi_comm_rows, \fBint\fP mpi_comm_cols,  \fBint\fP wantDebug);"
.br
.RI " "
.br
.RI "With the definitions of the input and output variables:"

.br
.RI "int \fBna\fP:               Order of matrix \fBa\fP"
.br
.RI "complex *\fBa\fP:           locally distributed part of the matrix \fBa\fP. The local dimensions are \fBlda\fP x \fBmatrixCols\fP"
.br
.RI "int \fBlda\fP:              leading dimension of locally distributed matrix \fBa\fP"
.br
.RI "int \fBnblk\fP:             blocksize of cyclic distribution, must be the same in both directions"
.br
.RI "int \fBmatrixCols\fP:       number of columns of locally distributed matrices \fBa\fP"
.br
.RI "int \fBmpi_comm_rows\fP:    communicator for communication in rows. Constructed with \fBelpa_get_communicators\fP(3)"
.br
.RI "int \fBmpi_comm_cols\fP:    communicator for communication in colums. Constructed with \fBelpa_get_communicators\fP(3)"
.br
.RI "int \fBwantDebug\fP:        give more debugging information"
.br

.RI "int     \fBsuccess\fP:       return value indicating success (1) or failure (0)

.SH DESCRIPTION
Inverts a upper triangular matrix a. The ELPA communicators \fBmpi_comm_rows\fP and \fBmpi_comm_cols\fP are obtained with the \fBelpa_get_communicators\fP(3) function.
.br
This function is part of the legacy API of the ELPA library. Better use the current API.
.br
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.br
Old interface:
\fBelpa_get_communicators\fP(3) \fBelpa_invert_trm_real_double\fP(3) \fBelpa_invert_trm_real_single\fP(3) \fBelpa_invert_trm_complex_double\fP(3)
.br
Current interface:
\fBelpa2_print_kernels\fP(1)
