.TH "elpa_hermitian_multiply_double_complex" 3 "Thu Nov 28 2024" "ELPA" \" -*- nroff -*-
.ad l
.nh
.ss 12 0
.SH NAME
elpa_hermitian_multiply_double_complex \- performs a "hermitian" multiplication of complex double-precision matrices: C = A^H * B

.SH SYNOPSIS
.br
.SS FORTRAN INTERFACE
use elpa
.br
class(elpa_t), pointer :: elpa_handle
.br

call elpa_handle%\fBhermitian_multiply_double_complex\fP (uplo_a, uplo_c, ncb, a, b, nrows_b, ncols_b, c, nrows_c, ncols_c, error)
.sp
With the definitions of the input and output variables:
.TP
class(elpa_t) ::\fB elpa_handle\fP
An instance of the ELPA object.
.TP
character*1   ::\fB uplo_a\fP
Should be set to 'U' if A is upper triangular, 
to 'L' if A is lower triangular or to anything else if A is a full matrix.
.TP
character*1   ::\fB uplo_c\fP
Should be set to 'U' if only the upper diagonal part of C is needed, 
to 'L' if only the upper diagonal part of C is needed, 
or to anything else if the full matrix C is needed.
.TP
integer       ::\fB ncb\fP
The number of columns of the global matrices\fB b\fP and\fB c\fP.
.TP
real(kind=c_double_complex) ::\fB a\fP \t OR \t type(c_ptr) ::\fB a\fP
The local part of the host/device matrix A.
The dimensions of matrix\fB a\fP must be set\fI BEFORE\fP with the methods\fB elpa_set\fP(3) and\fB elpa_setup\fP(3).
In case of a GPU build\fB a\fP can be a pointer to the device memory.
.TP
real(kind=c_double_complex) ::\fB b\fP \t OR \t type(c_ptr) ::\fB b\fP
The local part of the host/device matrix B.
The dimensions of the matrix are specified by the parameters\fB nrows_b\fP and\fB ncols_b\fP.
In case of a GPU build\fB b\fP can be a pointer to the device memory.
.TP
integer       ::\fB nrows_b\fP
The number of rows of matrix\fB b\fP.
.TP
integer       ::\fB ncols_b\fP
The number of columns of matrix\fB b\fP.
.TP
real(kind=c_double_complex) ::\fB c\fP \t OR \t type(c_ptr) ::\fB c\fP
The local part of the host/device matrix C.
The dimensions of the matrix are specified by the parameters\fB nrows_c\fP and\fB ncols_c\fP.
In case of a GPU build\fB c\fP can be a pointer to the device memory.
.TP
integer       ::\fB nrows_c\fP
The number of rows of matrix\fB c\fP.
.TP
integer       ::\fB ncols_c\fP
The number of columns of matrix\fB c\fP.
.TP
integer, optional ::\fB error\fP
The return error code of the function. Should be "ELPA_OK". The error code can be queried with the function\fB elpa_strerr\fP(3)

.br
.SS C/C++ INTERFACE
#include <elpa/elpa.h>
.br
elpa_t elpa_handle;

.br
// C:
.br
void\fB elpa_hermitian_multiply_double_complex\fP(\fBelpa_t\fP elpa_handle,\fB char\fP uplo_a,\fB char\fP uplo_c,\fB int\fP ncb,\fB double complex\fP *a,\fB double complex\fP *b,\fB int\fP nrows_b,\fB int\fP ncols_b,\fB double complex\fP *c,\fB int\fP nrows_c,\fB int\fP ncols_c,\fB int\fP *error);
.sp
// C++:
.br
void\fB elpa_hermitian_multiply_double_complex\fP(\fBelpa_t\fP elpa_handle,\fB char\fP uplo_a,\fB char\fP uplo_c,\fB int\fP ncb,\fB std::complex<double>\fP *a,\fB std::complex<double>\fP *b,\fB int\fP nrows_b,\fB int\fP ncols_b,\fB std::complex<double>\fP *c,\fB int\fP nrows_c,\fB int\fP ncols_c,\fB int\fP *error);
.sp
With the definitions of the input and output variables:

.TP
elpa_t \fB elpa_handle\fP;
The handle to the ELPA object
.TP
char \fB uplo_a\fP;
Should be set to 'U' if A is upper triangular,
to 'L' if A is lower triangular or anything else if A is a full matrix.
.TP
char \fB uplo_c\fP;
Should be set to 'U' if only the upper diagonal part of C is needed, 
to 'L' if only the upper diagonal part of C is needed,
or to anything else if the full matrix C is needed.
.TP
int \fB ncb\fP;
The number of columns of the global matrices\fB b\fP and \fB c\fP.
.TP
double complex \fB *a\fP; \t OR \t std::complex<double> \fB *a\fP;
The local part of the host/device matrix A. The dimensions of matrix\fB a\fP must be set\fI BEFORE\fP with the methods\fB elpa_set\fP(3) and\fB elpa_setup\fP(3).
In case of a GPU build\fB a\fP can be a pointer to the device memory.
.TP
double complex \fB *b\fP; \t OR \t std::complex<double> \fB *b\fP;
The local part of the host/device matrix B. The dimensions of the matrix are specified by the parameters\fB nrows_b\fP and\fB ncols_b\fP.
In case of a GPU build\fB b\fP can be a pointer to the device memory.
.TP
int \fB nrows_b\fP;
The number of rows of matrix\fB b\fP.
.TP
int\fB ncols_b\fP;
The number of columns of matrix\fB b\fP.
.TP
double complex \fB *c\fP; \t OR \t std::complex<double> \fB *c\fP;
The local part of the host/device matrix C. The dimensions of the matrix are specified by the parameters\fBn rows_c\fP and\fB ncols_c\fP.
In case of a GPU build\fB c\fP can be a pointer to the device memory.
.TP
int \fB nrows_c\fP;
The number of rows of matrix\fB c\fP.
.TP
int \fB ncols_c\fP;
The number of columns of matrix\fB c\fP.
.TP
int \fB *error\fP;
The return error code of the function. Should be "ELPA_OK". The error code can be queried with the function\fB elpa_strerr\fP(3)

.SH DESCRIPTION
Performs a "hermitian" multiplication C=A^H * B for complex double-precision matrices.
The functions\fB elpa_init\fP(3),\fB elpa_allocate\fP(3),\fB elpa_set\fP(3),
and\fB elpa_setup\fP(3) must be called\fI BEFORE\fP\fB elpa_hermitian_multiply_double_complex\fP can be called.

.SH SEE ALSO
\fBelpa2_print_kernels\fP(1)\fB elpa_init\fP(3)\fB elpa_allocate\fP(3)\fB elpa_set\fP(3)\fB elpa_setup\fP(3)\fB elpa_strerr\fP(3)\fB elpa_eigenvalues\fP(3)\fB elpa_eigenvectors\fP(3)\fB elpa_solve_tridiagonal\fP(3)\fB elpa_uninit\fP(3)\fB elpa_deallocate\fP(3)
