.TH "elpa_setup_gpu" 3 "Thu Nov 28 2024" "ELPA" \" -*- nroff -*-
.ad l
.nh
.ss 12 0
.SH NAME
elpa_setup_gpu \- finalize the setup of GPU in ELPA
.br

.SH SYNOPSIS
.br
.SS FORTRAN INTERFACE
use elpa
.br
class(elpa_t), pointer :: elpa_handle
.br

status = elpa_handle%\fBsetup_gpu\fP()
.sp
With the definitions of the input and output variables:

.TP
class(elpa_t) ::\fB elpa_handle\fP
An instance of the ELPA object.
.TP
integer ::\fB status\fP  
The returned error code. Should normally be ELPA_OK. Can be queried with\fB elpa_strerr\fP(3)
.br

.br
.SS C/C++ INTERFACE
#include <elpa/elpa.h>
.br
elpa_t elpa_handle;

.br
\fBint\fP status =\fB elpa_setup_gpu\fP (\fBelpa_t\fP elpa_handle);
.sp
With the definitions of the input and output variables:

.TP
elpa_t \fB elpa_handle\fP;  
The handle of an ELPA object, obtained before with\fB elpa_allocate\fP(3)
.TP
int \fB status\fP;    
The returned error code. Should normally be ELPA_OK. Can be queried with\fB elpa_strerr\fP(3)

.SH DESCRIPTION
Finalizes the setup of GPU runtime options in ELPA. \fB elpa_setup_gpu\fP has to be called after the runtime option for GPU usage has been set with\fB elpa_set\fP(3),
e.g. by 'call elpa_handle%set("nvidia-gpu", 1, status)' in Fortran or 'elpa_set(handle, "nvidia-gpu", 1, &status)' in C/C++.
 \fB elpa_setup_gpu\fP will check if the GPU is available and if the GPU is supported by the ELPA library. 
If the GPU is not available or not supported, the function will return an error code. 
If the GPU is available and supported, the function will finalize the setup of the GPU and return ELPA_OK. 

.SH SEE ALSO
\fBelpa_set\fP(3)\fB elpa_strerr\fP(3) \fBelpa_setup\fP(3)
