.TH "elpa_skew_eigenvectors_float" 3 "Thu Nov 28 2024" "ELPA" \" -*- nroff -*-
.ad l
.nh
.ss 12 0
.SH NAME
elpa_skew_eigenvectors_float \- computes all eigenvalues \(*l and (part of) the eigenvectors for a real skew-symmetric eigenproblem: A*Q = \(*l*Q
.br

.SH SYNOPSIS
.br
.SS FORTRAN INTERFACE
use elpa 
.br
class(elpa_t), pointer :: elpa_handle

call elpa_handle%\fBskew_eigenvectors_float\fP (a, ev, q, error)
.sp
With the definitions of the input and output variables:
.TP
class(elpa_t) ::\fB elpa \fP
An instance of the ELPA object
.TP
real(kind=c_float) ::\fB a\fP \t OR \t type(c_ptr) ::\fB a\fP
The local part of matrix A for which the eigenvalues and eigenvectors should be computed.
The dimensions of matrix\fB a\fP must be set\fI BEFORE\fP with the methods\fB elpa_set\fP(3) and\fB elpa_setup\fP(3).
The global matrix has to be skew-symmetric, this is not checked by the routine.
In case of a GPU build\fB a\fP can be a pointer to the device memory.
.TP
real(kind=c_float) ::\fB ev\fP \t OR \t type(c_ptr) ::\fB ev\fP
The array where the eigenvalues \(*l will be stored in\fI ascending\fP order.
In case of a GPU build\fB ev\fP can be a pointer to the device memory.
.TP
real(kind=c_float) ::\fB q\fP \t OR \t type(c_ptr) ::\fB q\fP
The storage space for the computed eigenvectors Q.
The number of requested eigenpairs must be set\fI BEFORE\fP with the methods\fB elpa_set\fP(3) and\fB elpa_setup\fP(3).
The number of requested eigenvectors must be set\fI BEFORE\fP with the methods\fB elpa_set\fP(3) and\fB elpa_setup\fP(3).
Note, that for a skew-symmetric matrix the eigenvectors are complex.
The routine returns separately the real and imaginary parts of the complex eigenvectors.
Thus, the storage space has to be of dimension q(#number_of_rows, 2*#number_of_columns).
In case of a GPU build\fB q\fP can be a pointer to the device memory.
.TP
integer, optional ::\fB error \fP
The return error code of the function. Should be "ELPA_OK". The error code can be queried with the function \fB elpa_strerr\fP(3)

.br
.SS C/C++ INTERFACE
#include <elpa/elpa.h>
.br
elpa_t elpa_handle;

.br
void\fB elpa_eigenvalues\fP(\fBelpa_t\fP elpa_handle,\fB float\fP *a,\fB float\fP *ev,\fB float\fP *q,\fB int\fP *error);
.sp
With the definitions of the input and output variables:

.TP
elpa_t \fB elpa_handle\fP;
The handle to the ELPA object
.TP
float \fB *a\fP;
The local part of matrix A for which the eigenvalues and eigenvectors should be computed.
The dimensions of the matrix must be set\fI BEFORE\fP with the methods\fB elpa_set\fP(3) and\fB elpa_setup\fP(3).
The global matrix has to be symmetric or hermitian, this is not checked by the routine.
In case of a GPU build\fB a\fP can be a pointer to the device memory.
.TP
float \fB *ev\fP;
The array where the eigenvalues \(*l will be stored in\fI ascending\fP order.
In case of a GPU build\fB ev\fP can be a pointer to the device memory.
.TP
float \fB *q\fP;
The storage space for the computed eigenvectors Q.
The number of requested eigenvectors must be set\fI BEFORE\fP with the methods\fB elpa_set\fP(3) and\fB elpa_setup\fP(3).
Note, that for a skew-symmetric matrix the eigenvectors are complex.
The routine returns separately the real and imaginary parts of the complex eigenvectors.
Thus, the storage space has to be of dimension q(#number_of_rows, 2*#number_of_columns).
In case of a GPU build\fB q\fP can be a pointer to the device memory.
.TP
int \fB *error\fP;
The error code of the function. Should be "ELPA_OK". The error codes can be queried with \fB elpa_strerr\fP(3).

.SH DESCRIPTION
Computes the eigenvalues and (part of) the eigenvector spectrum of a real skew-symmetric matrix.
The functions\fB elpa_init\fP(3),\fB elpa_allocate\fP(3),\fB elpa_set\fP(3), and\fB elpa_setup\fP(3) must be called\fI BEFORE\fP\fB elpa_skew_eigenvectors_float\fP can be called.
In particular, the number of the requested eigenpairs, "nev", must be set with\fB elpa_set\fP(3).

.SH SEE ALSO
\fBelpa2_print_kernels\fP(1)\fB elpa_init\fP(3)\fB elpa_allocate\fP(3)\fB elpa_set\fP(3)\fB elpa_setup\fP(3)\fB elpa_strerr\fP(3)\fB elpa_eigenvalues\fP(3)\fB elpa_skew_eigenvalues\fP(3)\fB elpa_eigenvectors\fP(3)\fB elpa_cholesky\fP(3)\fB elpa_invert_triangular\fP(3)\fB elpa_solve_tridiagonal\fP(3)\fB elpa_hermitian_multiply\fP(3)\fB elpa_uninit\fP(3)\fB elpa_deallocate\fP(3)
