.TH "elpa_tests" 1 "Thur Mar 17 2017" "ELPA" \" -*- nroff -*-
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
elpa_tests \- Provide all tests for the ELPA library\&.

.SH SYNOPSIS
.br
elpa_tests [--help] [datatype={real|complex}] [na=number] [nev=number] [nblk=size of block cyclic distribution] [--output_eigenvalues] [--output_eigenvectors] [--real-kernel=name_of_kernel] [--complex-kernel=name_of_kernel] [--use-gpu={0|1}] [--use-qr={0,1}] [--tests={all|solve-tridi|1stage|2stage}]
.br

.SH "Description"
.PP
Provide in a configurable way all test for the ELPA library.
.br
It is possible to run all test which have been implemented in ELPA
If no options are set, default options are choses (and printed).


.SH "Options"
.PP
.br
.RI "--help                                    print help information"
.br
.RI "dataype={real|complex}                    choose whether real or complex test cases are run. If not given, the default is real case."
.br
.RI "na=integer number                         choose the size of the matrix. If not given, the default na=4000 is set."
.br
.RI "nev=integer number                        choose number of eigenvalues/eigenvectors to compute. If not given, the default nev=1500 is set."
.br.
.RI "nblk=integer number                       set the size of the block cyclic distribution. If not given, the default nblk=16 is set."
.br
.RI "--output-eigenvalues                      if set, the computed eigenvalues will be stored in files. (default no)."
.br
.RI "--output-eigenvectors                     if set, the computed eigenvectors will be stored in files. (default no)."
.br
.RI "--real-kernel=string                      if given, use only this kernel for the real 2stage step. Available kernels can be querried with elpa2_print_kernels."
.br
.RI "--complex-kernel=string                   if given, use only this kernel for the complex 2stage step Available kernels can be querried with elpa2_print_kernels"
.br
.RI "--use-gpu={0|1}]                          switch on GPU usage. Fails, if GPUs are not available. Default no"
.br
.RI "--use-qr={0,1}                            use QR-decomposition in real 2stage step. Default no"
.br
.RI "--tests={all|solve-tridi|1stage|2stage}   if given, run only specified tests. Default is all"


.SH "Author"
A. Marek, MPCDF
.SH "Reporting bugs"
Report bugs to the ELPA mail elpa-library@mpcdf.mpg.de
.SH "SEE ALSO"
	\fBelpa2_print_kernels\fP(1) \fBelpa_get_communicators\fP(3) \fBelpa_solve_evp_real_double\fP(3) \fBelpa_solve_evp_real_single\fP(3) \fBelpa_solve_evp_complex_double\fP(3) \fBelpa_solve_evp_complex_single\fP(3) \fBelpa_solve_evp_real_1stage_double\fP(3) \fBelpa_solve_evp_real_1stage_single\fP(3) \fBelpa_solve_evp_real_2stage_double\fP(3) \fBelpa_solve_evp_real_2stage_single\fP(3) \fBelpa_solve_evp_complex_2stage_double\fP(3) \fBelpa_solve_evp_complex_2stage_single\fP(3)

