.TH "elpa_hermitian_multiply" 3 "Fri Apr 5 2024" "ELPA" \" -*- nroff -*-
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
elpa_hermitian_multiply \- performs a "hermitian" multiplication of matrices: C = A**T * B  for real matrices and C = A**H * B for complex matrices
.sp
There are also variations of this routine that can accept not only host but also device pointers as input/output. 
Names of these routines explicitly contain the corresponding datatypes:
elpa_hermitian_multiply_double,
elpa_hermitian_multiply_float,
elpa_hermitian_multiply_double_complex,
elpa_hermitian_multiply_float_complex.

.SH SYNOPSIS
.br
.SS FORTRAN INTERFACE
use elpa
.br
class(elpa_t), pointer :: elpa
.br

call elpa%\fBhermitian_multiply\fP (uplo_a, uplo_c, ncb, a, b, nrows_b, ncols_b, &
                                          c, nrows_c, ncols_c, error)
.sp
With the definitions of the input and output variables:
.TP
class(elpa_t) :: \fB elpa\fP
An instance of the ELPA object.
.TP
character*1   :: \fB uplo_a\fP
Should be set to 'U' if A is upper triangular, 
to 'L' if A is lower triangular or to anything else if A is a full matrix.
.TP
character*1   :: \fB uplo_c\fP
Should be set to 'U' if only the upper diagonal part of C is needed, 
to 'L' if only the upper diagonal part of C is needed, 
or to anything else if the full matrix C is needed.
.TP
integer       :: \fB ncb\fP
The number of columns of the global matrices\fB b\fP and\fB c\fP.
.TP
datatype      ::\fB a\fP
The matrix\fB a\fP. The dimensions of matrix\fB a\fP must be set\fI BEFORE\fP with the methods\fB elpa_set\fP(3) and\fB elpa_setup\fP(3).
The\fB datatype\fP of the matrix can be one of "real(kind=c_double)", "real(kind=c_float)", "complex(kind=c_double)", or "complex(kind=c_float)".
.TP
datatype      :: \fB b\fP
The matrix\fB b\fP. The dimensions of the matrix are specified by the parameters\fB nrows_b\fP and\fB ncols_b\fP.
The\fB datatype\fP of the matrix can be one of "real(kind=c_double)", "real(kind=c_float)", "complex(kind=c_double)", or "complex(kind=c_float)".
.TP
integer       :: \fB nrows_b\fP
The number of rows of matrix\fB b\fP.
.TP
integer       :: \fB ncols_b\fP
The number of columns of matrix\fB b\fP.
.TP
datatype      :: \fB c\fP
The matrix\fB c\fP. The dimensions of the matrix are specified by the parameters\fB nrows_c\fP and\fB ncols_c\fP.
The\fB datatype\fP of the matrix can be one of "real(kind=c_double)", "real(kind=c_float)", "complex(kind=c_double)", or "complex(kind=c_float)".
.TP
integer       :: \fB nrows_c\fP
The number of rows of matrix\fB c\fP.
.TP
integer       :: \fB ncols_c\fP
The number of columns of matrix\fB c\fP.
.TP
integer, optional :: \fB error\fP
The return error code of the function. Should be "ELPA_OK". The error code can be queried with the function\fB elpa_strerr\fP(3)

.br
.SS C INTERFACE
#include <elpa/elpa.h>
.br
elpa_t handle;

.br
void\fB elpa_hermitian_multiply\fP(\fBelpa_t\fP handle,\fB char\fP uplo_a,\fB char\fP uplo_c,\fB int\fP ncb,\fB datatype\fP *a,\fB datatype\fP *b,\fB int\fP nrows_b,\fB int\fP ncols_b,\fB datatype\fP *c,\fB int\fP nrows_c,\fB int\fP ncols_c,\fB int\fP *error);
.sp
With the definitions of the input and output variables:

.TP
elpa_t \fB handle\fP;
The handle to the ELPA object
.TP
char \fB uplo_a\fP;
Should be set to 'U' if A is upper triangular,
to 'L' if A is lower triangular or anything else if A is a full matrix.
.TP
char \fB uplo_c\fP;
Should be set to 'U' if only the upper diagonal part of C is needed, 
to 'L' if only the upper diagonal part of C is needed,
or to anything else if the full matrix C is needed.
.TP
int \fB ncb\fP;
The number of columns of the global matrices\fB b\fP and \fB c\fP.
.TP
datatype \fB *a\fP;
The matrix\fB a\fP. The dimensions of matrix\fB a\fP must be set\fI BEFORE\fP with the methods\fB elpa_set\fP(3) and\fB elpa_setup\fP(3).
The\fB datatype\fP of the matrix can be one of "double", "float", "double complex", or "float complex".
.TP
datatype \fB *b\fP;
The matrix\fB b\fP. The dimensions of the matrix are specified by the parameters\fB nrows_b\fP and\fB ncols_b\fP.
The\fB datatype\fP of the matrix can be one of "double", "float", "double complex", or "float complex".
.TP
int \fB nrows_b\fP;
The number of rows of matrix\fB b\fP.
.TP
int\fB ncols_b\fP;
The number of columns of matrix\fB b\fP.
.TP
datatype \fB *c\fP;
The matrix\fB c\fP. The dimensions of the matrix are specified by the parameters\fBn rows_c\fP and\fB ncols_c\fP.
The\fB datatype\fP of the matrix can be one of "double", "float", "double complex", or "float complex".
.TP
int \fB nrows_c\fP;
The number of rows of matrix\fB c\fP.
.TP
int \fB ncols_c\fP;
The number of columns of matrix\fB c\fP.
.TP
int \fB *error\fP;
The return error code of the function. Should be "ELPA_OK". The error code can be queried with the function\fB elpa_strerr\fP(3)

.SH DESCRIPTION
Performs a "hermitian" multiplication: C = A**T * B for real matrices and C=A**H * B for complex matrices.
The functions\fB elpa_init\fP(3),\fB elpa_allocate\fP(3),\fB elpa_set\fP(3), and\fB elpa_setup\fP(3) must be called\fI BEFORE\fP\fB elpa_hermitian_multiply\fP can be called.

.SH SEE ALSO
\fBelpa2_print_kernels\fP(1)\fB elpa_init\fP(3)\fB elpa_allocate\fP(3)\fB elpa_set\fP(3)\fB elpa_setup\fP(3)\fB elpa_strerr\fP(3)\fB elpa_eigenvalues\fP(3)\fB elpa_eigenvectors\fP(3)\fB elpa_solve_tridiagonal\fP(3)\fB elpa_uninit\fP(3)\fB elpa_deallocate\fP(3)
